.TH sslclient 1
.SH NAME
sslclient \- setup a TLS client connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sslclient
[
.I opts
]
.I host
.I port
.I prog
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I opts
is a series of getopt-style options,
.I host
is a host name for the client to connect to, and
.I prog
is one or more arguments specifying a program to run
for each successful connection.

.B sslclient
attempts to connect to a TCP server at
.I host
.IR port .
If the connection succeeds,
.B sslclient
runs
.IR prog ,
with file descriptors 6 and 7 reading from and
writing to a child process ssl.
The ssl process attempts an SSL connect via the network.
If it succeeds, it translates data between
.I prog
and the network, performing any necessary SSL encoding and decoding.

Before running
.I prog,
.B sslclient
sets certain environment variables.

.SH OPTIONS
.B General Options:
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet. Do not print error messages.
.TP
.B \-Q
(Default.) Print error messages.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose. Print error messages and status messages.
.P
.B Connection options:
.TP
.B \-4
Fall back to IPv4 sockets. This is necessary for terminally broken
systems like OpenBSD which will not let IPv6 sockets connect to
V4-mapped IPv6 addresses. Please note that this also applies to DNS
lookups, so you will have to use an DNS resolver with an IPv6 address to
connect to IPv6 systems. Use \fBDNSCACHEIP\fR to set the DNS resolver
IP dynamically.
.TP
.B \-6
Force IPv6 mode in UCSPI environment variables, even for
IPv4 connections. This will set \fB$PROTO\fR to \fBSSL6\fR and put
IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses in \fBSSLLOCALIP\fR and \fBSSLREMOTEIP\fR.
.TP
.B \-T \fIx+y
Give up on the connection attempt or SSL connection attempt after
.I x+y
seconds. The default value is: 2+58. When a
.I host
has several IP addresses,
.B sslclient
tries to connect to the first IP address, waits
.I x
seconds, tries to connect to the second IP address, waits
- Ix
seconds, etc.; then it retries each address that timed out, waiting
.I y
seconds per address. You may omit
.I +y
to skip the second try.
.TP
.B \-i \fIlocalip
Use
.I localip
as the IP address for the local side of the connection; quit if
.I localip
is not available. Normally
.B sslclient
lets the operating system choose an address.
.TP
.B \-p \fIlocalport
Use
.I localport
as the TCP port for the local side of the connection; quit if
.I localport
is not available. Normally
.B sslclient
lets the operating system choose a port .
.TP
.B \-d
Delay sending data for a fraction of a second whenever
the remote host is responding slowly.
This is currently the default, but it may not be in the future;
if you want it, set it explicitly.
.TP
.B \-D
Never delay sending data; enable TCP_NODELAY.
.TP
.B \-y
Delay starting SSL until the program requests it.
.TP
.B \-Y
(Default.) Immediately begin negotiating SSL.
.TP
.B \-Z\fIinterface
Use
.I interface
as the local network interface. This is only defined for IPv6 sockets
and needed if you use link-local IPv6 addresses.

.P
.B X509 certificate handling:
.TP
.B \-3
Read a null-terminated
.I key password
from file descriptor 3.
.TP
.B \-a \fIcafile
Override the compiled-in CA file name.
The CA file contains the list of CAs used to verify the server certificate.
.TP
.B \-A \fIcadir
Override the compiled-in CA directory name.
The CA directory contains certificates files used
to verify the client certificate. This list augments the list from
.I \-a \fIcafile.
.TP
.B \-c \fIcertfile
Use the client certificate in
.IR certfile .
.TP
.B \-k \fIkeyfile
Use the client certificate key in
.IR keyfile .
.TP
.B \-V \fIverifydepth
Verify the server certificate chain to depth
.IR verifydepth .
The default value is 1.
.TP
.B \-z \fIciphers
Use the cipher list specified in
.IR ciphers .
.TP
.B \-x
(Default.) Verify the server certificate.
.TP
.B \-X
Do not verify the server certificate.
.TP
.B \-n
(Default.) Verify that the server host name matches
the FQDN provided in the certificate.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not verify that the server host name matches
the FQDN provided in the certificate.

.P
.B Data-gathering options:
.TP
.B \-h
(Default.) Look up the remote host name in DNS
to set the environment variable $SSLREMOTEHOST.
.TP
.B \-H
Do not look up the remote host name in DNS;
remove the environment variable $SSLREMOTEHOST.
.TP
.B \-l \fIlocalname
Do not look up the local host name in DNS; use
.I localname
for the environment variable $SSLLOCALHOST.
A common choice for
.I localname
is 0.
.TP
.B \-r
Attempt to obtain $SSLREMOTEINFO from the remote host.
.TP
.B \-R
(Default.) Do not attempt to obtain $SSLREMOTEINFO from the remote host.
.TP
.B \-t \fIn
Give up on the $SSLREMOTEINFO connection attempt after
.I n
seconds. The default value is: 26.
.TP
.B \-w \fIn
Give up on a connection or program after waiting
.I n
seconds for read or write. The default value is: 3600.
.TP
.B \-s
Store client and server certificate information in the environment, a la mod_ssl.
.TP
.B \-S
(Default.) Do not store client and server certificate information in the environment.
.TP
.B \-e
Set protocol environment a la
.BR tcpserver .
Set $TCPLOCALIP, $TCPLOCALPORT, $TCPLOCALHOST, $TCPREMOTEIP,
$TCPREMOTEPORT, $TCPREMOTEHOST, and $TCPREMOTEINFO
from the corresponding $SSL variables.
.TP
.B \-E
(Default.) Do not set any
.B tcpserver
environment variables.

.SH SEE ALSO
sslserver(1),
sslconnect(1),
sslcat(1),
https@(1),
ucspi-tls(2),
tcp-environ(5).

http://www.superscript.com/ucspi-ssl/sslclient.html
http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/mod/mod_ssl.html
