.TH sslserver 1
.SH NAME
sslserver \- accept TLS connections and setup SSL CTX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sslserver
[
.I opts
]
.I host
.I port
.I prog
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I opts
is a series of getopt-style options,
.I host
is a host name or IP address,
.I port
is a TCP port, and
.I prog
is one or more arguments specifying a program
to run for each accepted connection.

.B sslserver
listens for connections from TCP clients.
Typically, for each connection, it runs
.IR prog ,
with file descriptor 0 reading from,
and file descriptor 1 writing to a child process
.IR ssl .
If however
.B sslserver
is called with the option
.IR \-n ,
it communcates with
.I prog
on mutually chosen, arbitrary file descriptors.
.I prog
needs to support the UCSPI-TLS API.
The
.I ssl
process attempts an SSL accept via the network.
If it succeeds, it translates data between
.I prog
and the network, performing any necessary SSL encoding and decoding.
Before running
.IR prog ,
.B sslserver
reads and sets certain environment variables.

.B sslserver
exits when it receives SIGTERM.

.SH OPTIONS
.B General Options:
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet. Do not print error messages.
.TP
.B \-Q
(Default.) Print error messages.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose. Print error messages and status messages.

.P
.B Connection options:
.TP
.B \-1
After preparing to receive connections,
print the local port number to standard output.
.TP
.B \-4
Fall back to IPv4 sockets.  This is necessary for terminally broken
systems like OpenBSD which will not let IPv6 sockets connect to
V4-mapped IPv6 addresses.  Please note that this also applies to DNS
lookups, so you will have to use an DNS resolver with an IPv6 address to
accept IPv6 connections.  Use \fBDNSCACHEIP\fR to set the DNS resolver
IP dynamically.
.TP
.B \-6
Force IPv6 mode in UCSPI environment variables, even for
IPv4 connections.  This will set \fB$PROTO\fR to \fBSSL6\fR and put
IPv4-mapped IPv6 addresses in \fBSSLLOCALIP\fR and \fBSSLREMOTEIP\fR.
.TP
.B \-c \fIn
Do not handle more than
.I n
simultaneous connections.
If there are
.I n
simultaneous connections copies of
.I prog
running, defer acceptance of a new connection until one copy finishes.
.I n
must be a positive integer. The default value is 40.
.TP
.B \-x \fIcdb
Follow the rules compiled into
.I cdb
by
.BR tcprules .
These rules may specify setting environment variables
or rejecting connections from bad sources.
You can rerun
.B tcprules
to change the rules while
.B sslserver
is running.
.TP
.B \-X
With
.B \-x \fIcdb,
allow connections even if
.B \-I cdb
does not exist. Normally
.B sslserver
will drop the connection if
.I cdb
does not exist.
.TP
.B \-B \fIbanner
Write
.I banner
to the network immediately after each SSL connection is made. The
.I banner
is subject to SSL encryption.
.TP
.B \-g \fIgid
Switch group ID to
.I gid
after preparing to receive connections.
.I gid
must be a positive integer.
.TP
.B \-u \fIuid
Switch user ID to
.I uid
after preparing to receive connections.
.I uid
must be a positive integer.
.TP
.B \-U
Same as
.B \-g
$GID
.B \-u
$UID. Typically, $GID and $UID are set by
.BR envuidgid .
.TP
.B \-b \fIn
Allow a backlog of approximately
.I n
pending connections.
.TP
.B \-o
Leave IP options alone. If the client is sending packets
along an IP source route, send packets back along the same route.
.TP
.B \-O
(Default.) Kill IP options.
A client can still use source routing to connect and to send data,
but packets will be sent back along the default route.
.TP
.B \-d
Delay sending data for a fraction of a second whenever the
remote host is responding slowly. This is currently the default,
but it may not be in the future; if you want it, set it explicitly.
.TP
.B \-D
Never delay sending data; enable TCP_NODELAY.
.TP
.B \-t \fIn
Give up on the $SSLREMOTEINFO connection attempt after
.I n
seconds. The default value is: 26.
.TP
.B \-T \fIn
Give up on the SSL connection attempt after
.IR n seconds.
The default value is: 26.
.TP
.B \-w \fIn
Give up on a connection or program after waiting
.I n
seconds for read or write. The default value is: 3600.
.TP
.B \-Z\fIinterface
Bind to the network interface
.I interface
("eth0" on Linux, for example).  This is only defined and needed for
IPv6 link-local addresses.

.P
.B SSL and TLS connection options:
.TP
.B \-n
delay setup of SSL environment until a STARTTLS/STLS command
has been issued by the client.
.TP
.B \-N
(Default.) Setup the SSL environment immediately.
.TP
.B \-y
Delay starting SSL until the program requests it.
.TP
.B \-Y
(Default.) Immediately begin negotiating SSL.
.TP
.B \-s
Store client and server certificate information in the environment, a la
.IR mod_ssl .
.TP
.B \-S
(Default.) Do not store client and server certificate information in the environment.

.P
.B X509 certificate and encryption options:
.TP
.B \-3
Read a null-terminated
.I key password
from file descriptor
.IR 3 .
.TP
.B \-i
Require valid client certificates.
.TP
.B \-I
(Default.) Do not require client certificates.

.P
.B Data-gathering options:
.TP
.B \-h
(Default.) Look up the remote host name in DNS to set the
environment variable $SSLREMOTEHOST.
In this case, additionally the CN in the X509 certificate is
checked, provided, the option
.B \-i
is set.
.TP
.B \-H
Do not look up the remote host name in DNS;
remove the environment variable $SSLREMOTEHOST.
To avoid loops, you must use this option for servers on TCP port 53.
.TP
.B \-p
Paranoid. After looking up the remote host name in DNS,
look up the IP addresses in DNS for that host name,
and remove the environment variable  $SSLREMOTEHOST
if none of the addresses match the clientds IP address.
.TP
.B \-P
(Default.) Not paranoid.
.TP
.B \-l \fIlocalname
Do not look up the local host name in DNS; use
.I localname
for the environment variable $SSLLOCALHOST.
A common choice for
.I localname
is 0. To avoid loops, you must use this option for servers on TCP port 53.
.TP
.B \-r
Attempt to obtain $SSLREMOTEINFO from the remote host.
.TP
.B \-R
(Default.) Do not attempt to obtain $SSLREMOTEINFO from the remote host.
To avoid loops, you must use this option for servers on TCP ports 53 and 113.
.TP
.B \-e
Set protocol environment a la
.BI tcpserver .
Set $TCPLOCALIP, $TCPLOCALPORT, $TCPLOCALHOST, $TCPREMOTEIP,
$TCPREMOTEPORT, $TCPREMOTEHOST, and $TCPREMOTEINFO from the
current $SSL environment (see below).
.TP
.B \-E
(Default.) Do not set any
.B tcpserver
environment variables.

.P
.B SSL environment variables read:
.P
These variables define the run-time environment of
.B sslserver
and are used to specify X509 certificates and keyfile per connection.
.B $SSL_USER=\fIname
The user, reading the certificates and keyfile.
.TP
.B $SSL_GROUP=\fIgroup
The respective user group.
.TP
.B $SSL_UID=\fIuid
The numerical UID of the $SSL_USER.
.TP
.B $SSL_CHROOT=\fIpath
Perform reading of certificates and keyfile in a $SSL_CHROOT jail.
.TP
.B $CAFILE=\fIpath
If set, overrides the compiled-in CA file name.
The CA file contains the list of CAs used to verify the client certificate.
Certificates in $CAFILE are processed when the server starts.
.TP
.B $CADIR=\fIpath
If set, overrides the compiled-in CA directory name.
The CA directory contains certificates files used to verify the client certificate.
This list augments the list from $CAFILE.
Certificates in $CADIR are processed during certificate verification.
.TP
.B $CCAFILE=\fIpath
If set, overrides the compiled-in client CA file name for client certificate request.
The client CA file contains the list of CAs sent to the client
when requesting a client certificate.
.I Note:
Setting of $CCAFILE is required while using the option
.I \-i.
.TP
.B $CCAVERIFY
If set,
.B sslserver
requests a valid client certificate on a per-connection base, unlike the general
option
.IR \-i .
.TP
.B $CERTFILE=\fIpath
If set, overrides the compiled-in certificate file name.
The server presents this certificate to clients.
.TP
.B $DHFILE=\fIpath
If set, overrides the compiled-in DH parameter file name.
.TP
.B $KEYFILE=\fIpath
If set, overrides the compiled-in key file name.
The key is used when loading the server certificate.
Setting $KEYFILE to the empty instructs the server
not to use a
.I keyfile
when loading it's certificate.
.TP
.B $VERIFYDEPTH=\fIn
If set, overrides the compiled-in verification depth. Default: 1.


.P
.B SSL environment variables set:
.P
In case
.B sslserver
is called with the option
.BR \-e ,
the following
.I mod_ssl
environment variables are provided:
.TP
.B SSL_PROTOCOL
The SSL protocol version (SSLv2, SSLv3, TLSv1).
.TP
.B SSL_SESSION_ID
The hex-encoded SSL session id.
.TP
.B SSL_CIPHER
The cipher specification name.
.TP
.B SSL_CIPHER_USEKEYSIZE
Number of cipher bits (actually used).
.TP
.B SSL_CIPHER_ALGKEYSIZE
Number of cipher bits (possible).
.TP
.B SSL_VERSION_INTERFACE
The mod_ssl program version.
.TP
.B SSL_VERSION_LIBRARY
The OpenSSL program version.
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_M_VERSION
The version of the client certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_M_SERIAL
The serial of the client certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_S_DN
Subject DN in client's certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_S_DN_x509
Component of client's Subject DN.
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_I_DN
Issuer DN of client's certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_I_DN_x509
Component of client's Issuer DN.
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_V_START
Validity of client's certificate (start time).
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_V_END
Validity of client's certificate (end time).
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_A_SIG
Algorithm used for the signature of client's certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_A_KEY
Algorithm used for the public key of client's certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_CERT
PEM-encoded client certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_CERT_CHAIN \fIn
PEM-encoded certificates in client certificate chain.
.TP
.B SSL_CLIENT_VERIFY
NONE, SUCCESS, GENEROUS or FAILED:reason.
.TP
.B SSL_SERVER_M_SERIAL
The serial of the server certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_SERVER_S_DN
Subject DN in server's certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_SERVER_S_DN_x509
Component of server's Subject DN.
.TP
.B SSL_SERVER_I_DN
Issuer DN of server's certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_SERVER_I_DN_x509
Component of server's Issuer DN.
.TP
.B SSL_SERVER_V_START
Validity of server's certificate (start time).
.TP
.B SSL_SERVER_V_END
Validity of server's certificate (end time).
.TP
.B SSL_SERVER_A_SIG
Algorithm used for the signature of server's certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_SERVER_A_KEY
Algorithm used for the public key of server's certificate.
.TP
.B SSL_SERVER_CERT
PEM-encoded server certificate.
.P
For $SSL_CLIENT_x_DN_x509 and $SSL_SERVER_x_DN_x509,
x509 denotes a component of the DN:
C, ST, L, O, OU, CN, T, I, G, S, D, UID, Email.

.SH SEE ALSO
sslclient(1),
sslconnect(1),
sslcat(1),
https@(1),
ucspi-tls(2),
tcprules(1),
tcprulescheck(1),
tcp-environ(5).

http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/mod/mod_ssl.html
