.TH ucspi-tls 2
.SH NAME
UCSPI-TLS \- advanced and secure communication between server and prog
.SH DESCRIPTON
A
.B UCSPI-TLS
enhanced server makes optional SSL services available to the
client by providing three file descriptors: a
.I control socket,
a
.I reading pipe,
and a
.I writing pipe.

The file descriptor number of the control socket will be in the
environment variable $SSLCTLFD.

The file descriptor number of the reading pipe will be in the
environment variable $SSLREADFD, and the file descriptor number of the
writing pipe will be in the environment variable $SSLWRITEFD.

It's possible for all three of these file descriptors to be the same.

.SH USAGE
.B UCSPI-TLS
provides standard IN and OUT (file descriptors 0 and 1)
to connected directly to the socket, for unencrypted communication.

The
.I control socket
must accept at least these two commands:
.TP
.B y
Start TLS.
.TP
.B Y
Start TLS, and send optional SSL connection information
back over the control socket.
.P
The SSL connection information will be in the in the form of an
environment string, with zero or more environment variables,
terminated by two ASCII NULL's.  Each environment variable is stored
as "VAR=val\0", and an additional trailing \0 is used to indicate
the end of all environment variables.  If there are no variables to
set, "\0\0" should be used.

When TLS is started, the
.B UCSPI-TLS
enabled server will take control of the socket,
and the application is expected to switch to the file descriptors in
$SSLREADFD and $SSLWRITEFD for all future communications.
Using the regular socket after activating TLS will
probably just confuse the client.

.SH SEE ALSO
Where possible, the environment variables set should be the same
ones as Apache's
.I mod_ssl:

http://httpd.apache.org/docs-2.0/mod/mod_ssl.html

.SH CREDITS
Scott Gifford, Charlie Brady
